From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 93. Recorded live
Wednesday, November 9th, 2011. Support for Hanselman
is provided by Telerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Tom Billups about developing
apps for iPhone windows, phone
seven. And man, Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes and today mobile development
and the mobile development report
card. I'm actually talking to
Torin Billups, and he's an
interesting guy because he has
created iPhone, Android and windows
phone seven applications. And I
thought it'd be cool to
talk to him and find
out what the state of
mobile development is today from
a pretty unbiased, unbiased perspective.
Would you agree that you
are unbiased? I'm trying to
be advised. I came to
you, Scott. You're the most
unbiased you're too kind. You're
too kind. So how did
this start? You decided one
day to start writing mobile
apps. You needed a hobby,
right? Every developer needs a
hobby outside of the corporate
world. Right? Sometime last year
I was working for a
software company and kind of
started a small mobile team
internally and a friend of
mine. One of the developers
on this team had some
great success with an Android
application, and I thought I
would attempt to duplicate his
success, but across all the
platforms and along the way,
hopefully learn this a new
mobile development paradigm or what's
exciting about mobile development. And
did you end up going
into this with the idea
that you would try each
of the three and ended
up writing a report card
or was it just you
wanted to do mobile and
it didn't really matter which
phone you used? You know,
I initially started on the
iPhone side thinking if I
was going to fail, I
should fail fast. And initially
I felt like objective C
from what I had read
and heard about it, might've
been a reach for me
technically, just because I don't
come from a, a C
background. A lot of my
college experience and work experience
was in the managed world.
So I thought, Hey, if
I'm gonna, if I'm not
gonna be able to do
it, let's start with what
everyone claims to be the
hardest platform on the iPhone
side. And I think around
this time windows phone seven
was just getting off the
ground if I remember right.
Like last year sometime. So
yeah, I just kind of
initially thought I would build
an iPhone app and then
go from there. I didn't
really have plans at the
time to say that, Oh,
at one point I want
to give talks or write
blog posts about how these
things compare. In fact, that
part really didn't come up
until much later when I
saw a lot of people
comparing or contrasting Android and
iPhone development. And at that
time I was already starting
to do some windows phone
and I thought, you know,
nobody's talking about windows phone.
So maybe if I get
a little experience or build
an app or two on
windows phone, I could kind
of contrast all three, which
hasn't been done that I've
seen. So Certainly not, certainly
not as exhaustively as I
thought your post was and
as fairly. And just to
make sure that for folks
that maybe haven't listened to
the show before I work,
I work for Microsoft, but
I do not work for
the windows phone team. And
I have no particular interests
either way in windows phone.
And you don't work for
Microsoft and I'm looking at
your blog and you've got
tags like Boone two and
fitness and Ruby and WCF.
So it looks like you're
a generalist. I'm, I'm a
generalist that works for Microsoft
and the website. I happen
to have an iPhone. What's
your primary phone that you
use every day? Right. And
in right now, it is
an iPhone four. Okay. So
we're two iPhone users and
I've done a couple of
run bias. We're unbiased in
that we hate it. We
have a love, hate relationship
with our iPhones. I'm sure.
There you go. Okay. So
let's, let's start with that.
Let's start with the iPhone
what's hello world, like on
an iPhone. Yeah. So the
hello world experience was, I
tried to be nice about
it mainly because I'm not
a nos 10 user by
default. I did change jobs
probably a few too many
times this last year, and
I'm actually working on Linux
right now doing Python. And,
but prior to that, I'd
always done development on windows.
So I, when I started
to do some objective C
stuff, of course, the first
kind of straw that breaks
her back is, Oh, do
you have a Mac? And
are you running the latest
version of iOS 10, et
cetera. So that part of
it, I kind of decided
to be nice to the
iPhone story and say, assuming
you have a Mac, the
hello world experience was actually
pretty awesome because similar to
the visual studio experience with
windows phone, you pretty much
just pull down the tooling.
And as soon as you
have the tooling up, it's
kind of finally project F
five, so to speak where
you just launched the simulator
and you can actually see
your app in the background,
so to speak. And I
felt was pretty good for
being a non Mac user
too. So they, I mean,
they've got a nice simulator,
both iPhone and windows phone
have a, an assimilator slash
emulator X code is what
you use on the OSX.
And you just say, file
new project, you name it
and you hit a five
or whatever the equivalent is.
And it runs into, in
a little mini iPhone on
your, on your Mac, Right?
Yeah, exactly. I mean, that's
was, I didn't feel, it'd
be that quick just from,
you know, the stigma in
the community, that there is
a lot of effort to
get your first iPhone project
up. And I would say
just to get a hello
world that was probably proved
wrong just by me going
out and doing it as
a, as a novice. And
I should probably throw a
little disclaimer out saying that
when I, when I built
this report card, I wasn't
trying to come at it
from a, these are, this
is how the world is
today on all these platforms.
It was really from, I've
been doing web development in
C sharp or Java the
last three, four years. And
what is that experience like
if you want to get
into mobile, but you've pretty
much been a web developer.
So that was really the
angle I came at. And
the hello world for me
was blatantly easy. Okay. But
on the Android though, what's
that like, what, what do
you use to develop on
an Android? What do you
have to download to get
started? Yeah, if you go
out and read the post,
I was, I think in
retrospect, a bit unfair to
Android, you know, throughout the
post, I tried to be
very apples to apples, meaning
that, you know, I was
not having a bias or
I wasn't doing different steps
and the hello world side.
I think I went a
little bit far with Android
saying that, you know, if
I really wanted to get
Android up with minimal effort,
I would pretty much install
the SDK and open a
clips. And at that point
it is fairly file new
project. Like I just personally
am not a, I'm just
not an eclipse person. So
of course I want to
be difficult and intern made
my life very difficult. So
I decided to go the
intelligent route, which is a
JetBrains product, the same kind
of parent company of ReSharper.
And, you know, the, the
experience was, I would say
just a little Rocky because
not just that eclipse is
the only way to kind
of get going with Android,
but if you're doing Android
on windows and you're kind
of used to the out
of the box  experience,
I described, you're not going
to get that same experience
doing Java right out of
the gate. In fact, I
had such a painful experience.
I had a coworker finally,
coworker finally come over and
helped me out because obviously
I was doing Java earlier
this year. And I was
just, wasn't probably accustomed to
all the stuff that Java
developers are on, on the
windows side, especially. So there's,
there's a lot of steps
and I kind of rated
the hello world experience poorly
because the more steps there
are for the developer, the
more chance there is for
human error. And let's be
honest, that's where all the
pain comes in. And I
felt, I felt like on
both the iPhone and the
windows phone side, there's no
real human error, unless you
can't figure out how to
download the tooling, because once
you have that installer up
and running, you pretty much
done. So if you use
eclipse on Android, hello world,
while you were a little
bit unfair, because you went
a little slightly off, I
mean, off the beaten path,
it sounds like hello world,
pretty straightforward on each of
the files. Right. And one
of the other gripes I
had, especially on windows is
if you were installing the
SDK, the very first kind
of prerequisite is, Hey, do
you have the JDK installed?
Because you're going to be
doing Java development. And the
weirdest bug in the installer
was that if you had
the JDK installed correctly, everything
was fine. For some reason,
the next button was just
grayed out in the actual
install. So every time I
would install it, I would
kind of look at it
and go, okay, maybe I've
messed something up. So it
took me actually reinstalling the
JDK a couple of different
times, and then full-out paving
my workstation. Before I, before
I went online and said,
maybe someone else is having
this problem. Exactly. And I
found out that it's just
a bug in the SDK,
but that made it a
painful for a newbie. And
like I said, I tried
to come at the angle
on the mobile dev side
that if I've done this
stuff, how hard is it
really to get going? So,
So hello world A's and
B's, if you stay on
the beaten path, but when
you come to learning curve,
it sounds like since you
are, you're kind of a.net
developer or a Java developer,
it sounds like you've been
doing Java since January of
this year. And before that.net,
you're I definitely a curly
braces developer, right. You're familiar
with curly brace related languages,
Right? So you can see
where the learning curve is
gonna, you know, take a
turn towards the iPhone and
kind of beat up on,
on the iPhone platform. And,
you know, as I mentioned
earlier, I don't really have
a C background and I
was very hesitant to get
into objective C because everyone
kind of talks about, of
course, what memory management and
the pointer thing. Of course,
if you don't know pointers,
you shouldn't be a programmer
and all that good stuff.
So I came in very
afraid and spent a long
time just kind of looking
at the code, thinking why
is everything in array? You
know, when you, when you
first come to objective C
there's so many brackets, or
it feels very bracket heavy,
that the joke, the joke
is just, you know, you
look at it and everything's
in a Ray for two
months, but, you know, I
initially built my product December
of last year and I
kind of prototyped it for
about 30 days thinking, I
don't know, objective C I'm
kind of copying and pasting
this from stack overflow as
I go, I know in
the end, you know, in
this 30 day sprint or,
you know, time box, if
you want to call it
that I'll be throwing this
away. And I did actually
throw the product. I had
a way because it wasn't
ready for prime time. And
then in addition to that,
you know, what's the best
thing for code quality, of
course, his hard drive failure.
So why not do that
myself? And I basically threw
it all away and spent
another two months kind of
refining and rewriting it all.
And through that process, you
know, where the weird things
I described for learning curve
is not just how long
does it take me to
learn how to, you know,
new up a string or
new up some object and
objective C or Java or
C sharp. It was more,
how long was it before
I really felt productive? Like,
you know, the, if you
kind of equate this to
natural language, you know, a
Spanish teacher told me a
long time ago in high
school that, you know, you
really know a foreign language
when you sit down and
think in Spanish or French,
you're no longer thinking in
English. And that's how I
kind of labeled this learning
curve is I wanted you
to sit down and boom,
I just wanted to kind
of be thinking in the
language, but I did so
much of this, what I
would say harmful unlearning where
instead of just saying, this
is how it creates something
objective to see, I'm just
going to run with it.
I said, that's how I
do an objective C, but
how would I do it
in C sharp? Oh, that's
how I would. And then
instead of, you know, kind
of learning the language, I
was learning it by proxy
in a way. And I
would always do this left-right
context switch in my head.
And that's it, you know,
I think Jeremy Miller talked about
this a while back that,
you know, the hardest thing
about learning new technologies is
as you get older, you
have a lot of things
to compare that to or
unlearn. And I feel like
that's what really held me
back. And I'm not even,
I'm not even 30 years
old at this point, but
I feel like, you know,
a lot of the C-sharp
each Java now I'm doing
Python full time. A lot
of those things just get
in your head and you
kind of have to just
muscle memory to some, to
some degree. So in your
post, you said it took
two months Of writing code
daily for two to four
hours. And that seems like
a long time. Do you
think that that's fair that
anyone's sitting down on any
of these things iPhone, Android,
or windows phone would need
to really think about this
for two solid months, pretty
much every day? Or do
you think that you paid
an extra tax, maybe doubling
the amount of time it
would take because of your
predisposition towards a, like a
dotnet language? Yeah, that's a
good point. You know, a
big part of it early
on was I was so
concerned about pointers and memory
management. And every time I
went to, you know, a
local user group or a
code camp, and I talked
to the person presenting on
getting in, getting started with
iPhone, they always say, well,
you have to be doing
memory management. You have to
understand pointers and about, you
know, after that spike or
that initial 30 day trial
that I threw it away.
I said, you know what?
I didn't even think about
memory management and I didn't
have a problem. And also,
I didn't really worry about
pointers when I did that
little asterix. I just assumed
that was a variable. So
in my head, I mean,
this sounds kind of bad.
And like I said, two
months probably makes me sound
on hireable on your podcast.
But the thing for me
was just kind of throwing
those, those fears. Cause I
feel like I had honest
to God, some kind of
code fear where I was
actually not very productive on
my, because I was afraid
I was going to screw
something up. But the two
months that I really got
into it, two to four
hours a day, I just
treated everything like variables. And
didn't even worry about memory
management until I got to
the point where I was
getting ready to ship it,
because I didn't know if
I was going to make
any money anyway. So why
would I kind of do
all that optimization upfront? And
when I actually got ready
to ship the product, I
kind of looked back over
the code and releasing memory
really wasn't as big a
deal as everyone had told
me. So I thought, you
know, if I had gone
into that with all out
these negative biases against me,
I might've, I might've actually
just rolled with it and
said, Hey, it's just another
programming language. I think like
you're saying that there's a
big, a bunch of stuff
in my head that I
had to just kind of
get past before I was
productive. And why, why was,
why were you so concerned
about memory management? Just because
did you have an impression
of objective C as not
being a language that did
much for you? I mean,
doesn't it have smart pointers
and some abilities to release
memory or I guess let
me put it this way.
When I first had mobile
development, I did it on
a Palm pilot. It was
a Palm 1000 and I
had, I think, 16 K
of heap and forecasts stack
and memory management was a
huge deal. And the hardest
part for me, developing on
a tiny, tiny mobile device
and see again much, much,
much smaller than an iPhone
was thinking about like objects,
scope, object, lifetime, like, you
know, how long should this
array be around and am
I, am I leaking four
bites here and there, because
if I do, I'm going
to eventually hear about it.
Do those kinds of thing
exists on these, on these
different platforms on these three
different mobile platforms? How much
are you thinking about object
lifetime? Yeah, that's, that's really
what kind of hung me
up in the early days
when I was building this
app is I was so
concerned about, you know, like
you said, leaking four bites
here and there and come
to find out this thing's
got 512 megabytes of Ram
on it. So why am
I that about leaking four
bites? Memory leaks are bad
though. I mean, I don't
want to like call you
out on the podcast, but
I mean, we don't want
to leak memory, right. To
be clear. Did the development
tools help you find stuff
like that and do the,
does the guidance and the
prescriptive documentation for all of
these platforms, like tell you
when you should be thinking
about leaking memory or not?
Yeah. So let me dig,
dig myself out of this
hole here. I initially, when
I worked on the product,
this was last December, right?
And back then it was
X code three, which was
in my opinion, probably just
the worst IDE I've ever
used. And that's a bold
statement, but I didn't really
help you with memory management
or tell you any helpful
hints. Now I have downloaded
X code for recently and
in X code for it's
doing kind of what you're
talking about, which is more
helpful hints. And I did
develop an app about a
month ago for our code
camp locally and found that
to be a huge help
because there were certainly places
where I wasn't auto releasing.
And it would just say,
you know, Hey, you're need
to auto release this. And
I'm like, yeah, you know,
I do. So I would
use the tooling in that
way and it's gotten a
lot better. I, you know,
I personally though, if you're,
if you're going to do
some objective C full time,
I would, I would recommend
actually pulling down the latest
JetBrains product called the app
code. And it's essentially like
ReSharper or any tool that
you can that JetBrains makes
this kind of a, a
great IDE. And the thing
I like about it is
that, you know, I can
transition from work and home
without having to relearn a
bunch of shortcuts. And that's
what I really kind of
bummed me out about. Excode
was in addition to being
kind of a very poor
editor, it's also a whole
nother set of mappings. You
have to learn. So I'm
doing Python now. And the
great thing is we're using
pie charm, the other jet
Brian's product. And then I
come home and if I'm
doing objective C same shortcuts,
same editor, then I use
re and if I'm using
ReSharper in visual studio, same
shortcuts from using the intelligence.
This episode of Hansel minutes
is brought to you by
careers, 2.0 and our friends
at stack overflow careers, 2.0
is the only career site
dedicated to matching graded offers
with great jobs, post your
open depositions on careers to
point out today, reach the
entire development community, all 15 million
monthly visitors on stack overflow.
The best part is you'll
receive exceptional candidates, not just
a massive pile of unqualified
resumes. You're used to waiting
through. We'll save you tons
of time and headaches of
careers. When you're posting your
job, you can even choose
to receive or candidates careers
profile instead of just their
resume, making your candidate sorting
even easier. The guys at
stack overflow believe in that
product so much. And if
you're not incredibly happy, they'll
refund your money. No questions
asked. And to top it
off as a Hansel minutes
listener, you've been a free
stack or float tee shirt.
When you purchase a job
listing to get your free,
t-shirt use the code Hansel
minutes and check out careers
dot stack overflow.com. Once again,
that URL is careers dot
stack overflow.com. No, that's an
interesting point that you're bringing
up because, you know, if
you, if, if people who
are listening, go check your
app@blueflixapp.com, B L M B
L U E Flix, F
L I X app.com. We'll
put that in the show
notes. This is an application
that lets you manage, you
know, your blockbuster express movie
kiosk, and you have an
iPhone, a windows phone and
an Android app. So you're
context switching. And if you
pee, you're really, you're, you're
a tiny ISV, right? You're
a micro ISV. You're that?
You're kind of that dream,
that dream startup one guy
in a garage with three
apps, all branded all working
on any device at all.
And you're switching between those
devices, fixing bugs and dealing
with customer requests. Context switching
is more than just the
language and the concepts. It's
also like you're pointing out
the muscle memory and it
sounds like you standardized on
JetBrains tools for your muscle
memory and that made you
more productive. So people should
take into consideration that muscle
memory tax as it were,
Right. I mean, if you,
if you're going to be
in this industry for more
than a year, you're going
to have to eventually be
very good at it. Right?
And you want to be
productive and have high velocity.
And especially as you mentioned
in the micro ISB sense,
this is my time, right?
This isn't an employer's time
where if I'm learning a
couple of shortcuts, so be
it, this is how quickly
can I get a new
feature out to either be
beat the competition or create
a whole new app that
someone would pay money for.
And that's been like you
said something I've re-evaluated over
time because it really wasn't
important to me early on,
I was just playing around.
It was a hobby, but
like you said, now I've
got not just effort and
coding, but all that brand
recognition work and the, you
know, trying to keep the
name up in the internet
sort of space on Twitter
and get people interested in
buying it or checking it
out. That's a lot of
work too. So you certainly
don't want to waste the
little time you have, you
know, kind of relearning a
new editor or any other
kind of context, wishing that's
expensive. All right. Let's move
on to a test driven
development. Cause I know that
I've sat down with a
windows phone app and thought
about writing it and actually
stopped writing. It got frustrated
and gave up for a
couple of weeks because I
just couldn't figure out what
the right way to test.
One of these things is
how do you test a
phone application? What's the right
way to set up a
unit test framework and how
do each of these phones
stack up? Yeah. I, you
know, I also have a
disclaimer kind of in this
post because I'm still not
really test driving a lot
of the front end stuff.
So your question kind of
begs, like how are you
verifying these views kind of
look good and that sort
of stuff I haven't really
found a way to do
yet. What I, what I
kind of labeled this category
as was if I'm just
driving out the domain model
or kind of the class
library underneath, how easy is
it to get that code
under test just the actual
classes and services or whatever
you want to use underneath
the covers. And for that,
you know, on the windows
phone, I kind of beat
them up here a little
bit because the, the express
tooling, which, you know, Microsoft
probably like all the other
vendors is trying to have
some tooling that a pretty
good job for micro ISV
who just don't want to
spend any money. Right. And
for the express tooling, one
of the biggest shortcomings, if
you are in that group
is you can't use any
plugins. So ReSharper, as we
mentioned earlier, I'm just one
of those developers where I
really have a hard time
working without ReSharper. So had
I been a victim, if
you were to the express
only tooling, that would have
just been a huge issue
for my productivity, but I'm
kind of in a weird
space, because like you said,
I I've done some C
sharp development in the past
and I spend a lot
of times still writing C-sharp.
And so I actually have
a visual studio, 2010 ultimate,
and I actually have a
ReSharper license. So for me
to jump in, you know,
I have a test runner
with ReSharper and it seems
to work. My, my other
real gripe with the TDD
side was the community. I
saw so many blog posts
out there saying, you know,
I can figure out this,
any of the things. So
I just wrote my own
X unit, yada yada, and
I kind of got hung
up on those posts for
a long time and finally
landed on a Silverlight three
compatible version of end unit.
And just, just added that
to my kind of test
project and the only real
pain point at that, that
step was telling me just
video. Yeah, I know it's
I know it's a Silverlight
assembly. Don't worry about it.
You know, I'm not deploying
this it as far as
how those things stack up
compared to the iPhone and
the Android side on the
Android side, it was awesome
because I was using Maven
and Maven. It's kind of
like new get, if I
equate that to the.net world
kind of dependency management build
tool, and it's very similar
to you get, I basically
said, Hey, I want J
unit. And it went out
and got J unit for
me. So to write tests,
that was pretty simple. And
then on the X code
side, the early ex-co days
was actually very painful, but
I want to give excode
some credit today. If you're
still using X code, it
actually does kind of what
NBC does out of the
box. When you create a
new project that says, Hey,
I assume, I assume you
want a, a unit test
project here. Right. And you
can say yes or no.
So, So it sounds like
test driven development straight forward
in all of them, but
when do you get it
out of the box? I
mean, I, can you go
file new app with tests
and it sets you up
like this hello world, come
with tests on these three
different devices On the iPhone
side. If you're using X
code, it will prompt you
and say, do you want
this project set up for
testing? So really out of
the box, that's pretty much
the only one that's going
to have it all set
up for you, file new
project. And does that, is
that something that you missed,
like, was that a big
a tax that you paid
to go and say, I
want to find out how
to, how, how one tests?
Cause I know it's a
good question. W with each
of these communities, do they
value unit testing as, as
a tenant? Yeah. And of
course I came after the
Microsoft community there just because,
you know, my experience on
the Microsoft stack is more
of like an 80, 20,
there's certainly a 20% that,
you know, they're the hardcore
TDD crowd. They're very loud,
but there's a good 80%
that could care less. Or,
you know, and I'm not
even a purist in that
sense. Chester and development is
just my style of choice.
And for me, I just
want Microsoft in that community
obviously to see the value
of the beginner, kind of
the express edition of the
micro ISV, I would like
to give a little more
support to that person, obviously.
But like you said, it's
not that the eclipse or
the, the intelligent experience is
much better out of the
box. So I probably can't
complain too much. I just
feel like some of the
pain that I went through
wasn't really helped out by
the community. So of course
I tried to do my
part and I actually did
kind of a short screencast
that just says, look, if
you have a file new
project on windows phone, here's
how you get an unit
up and running. And another
issue I had is actually
not Microsoft's fault, but it's
a JetBrains. Their latest ReSharper
plugin actually has a bug
in it. Where when you
go to run these Silverlight
tests, the test, the test
runner just goes gray. Like
it doesn't know what you're
talking about. So I actually
did some research there and
there's actually a bug with
jet. So hopefully they fix
it. But in the short
term, I had to kind
of uninstalled jet brain or
the ReSharper six plugin, go
back, go back to an
old, I think some version
of five and five actually
was able to run that.
So, So I'm hearing a
lot of anecdotes from you
about, you know, this seemed
like a good idea when
I plugged that tool into
this tool, this tool, it,
it didn't quite work out.
So you, you you're hitting
speed bumps that are kind
of typical software engineering, speed
bumps where things didn't quite
plug in in the, in
the magical way that one
thought that would, Yeah, no,
that's true. You know, and
that's going to be any
new platform, right. So it's
certainly not going to come
out of the box and
have an app delivered in
two days, right? Yeah, definitely.
Yeah. I mean that, I
mean, I keep these presentations
and I give these keynotes
and it always looks like
you can build an app
in five minutes, but only
if everything works exactly perfectly.
Right. Yeah. And that's never
the case, as we know.
So, you know, I just
tried to do kind of
my part as I was
learning this stuff and give,
you know, kind of give
back in that way to
say, look, here's some serious
issues I had and I
just kind of took a
short screencast to say, this
is how I solved it.
So that I feel like
at least I'm a very
visual learner and I've watched
a lot of screencasts in
the last couple of years.
And I just feel like
I get a lot more
value from those. So, right.
Well, you've got these screencasts
of screencast of blue flicks
in action, and you can
kind of see what it
looks like on an Android.
And it looks like a
fairly straightforward looking application. It's
got a list. And within
that list, you've got movie
posters information about the movies
that you might want to
register and bingo pick up
at a, at a kiosk
location. You do some GPS
work when you're laying out
a page like this. Did
you lay out the three
different applications on the three
different, three different phones to
look identical? Or did you
think I want this to
look very iPhone and I
want this to look very
windows phony. That's yeah, that's
a great question. I initially,
when I finished the iPhone
app, I thought this is
perfect, right? This is exactly
what people want. It kind
of mirrored the red box
experience because blockbuster express is
kind of a clone of
red box. And so I
kind of had a guide
to go from there when
I finally shipped the iPhone
app. And I thought, you
know what, maybe I'll make
the Android app. Now I
did go in with that
mindset that Whoa, I'm shipping
the exact same product. It's
just on another platform. It
must look identical. I mean,
I need images to be
the same, et cetera. And
what I found was, you
know, how many people who
are using my iPhone product
today also are using the
Android product or the windows
phone products. Yeah, exactly. I
mean, if people only have
one primary phone, so I
got less concerned about that
and just kind of went
with whatever looks good on
the platform. In fact, on
the Android side specifically, I
just completely scrapped using custom
PNG images because the different
resolutions, I just had such
a poor experience with that,
that I finally said, you
know what, I'll use native
controls and just color them
red or blue, whatever, because
the image, I just wasn't
comfortable shipping images to all
these different resolutions that kind
of, you know, unless you
have about 60 phones, you
can't really be confident on
the web on the Android
side. You know, I kind
of joke that it's the
of mobile development, because
that's how it feels when
I'm actually working on a
UI for Android right now,
Things out, I know that
on windows, phone, seven, you're
using XAML, which is an
XML markup language. And I
seem to remember, you know,
layout systems or layout systems.
I was working at Nike
and about 90, 97 or
99 on Java, you know,
and it was a grid
layouts and call spans and
things like that. I mean,
layouts or layouts, whether or
not they're elastic or not,
and things like that. So
it was this XAML and
XML markup is markup. How
do you lay out a,
an iPhone application? What's that
layout look like? Yeah, so
the, the iPhone side was
a little different. I initially
started doing my objective C
views in all objective C.
So I wouldn't even use
the layout tooling called interface
builder. I just kind of
said, I don't trust cause
it's a kind of a
drag and drop tool. I
said, I don't trust, drag
and drop that's the devil,
you know, I'm going to,
I'm going to hand code
this, like, you know, the
real programmer I am. And
I kind of found that,
you know, in addition to
being a lot more code
the, the drag and drop
stuff on the front end
for the iPhone, really isn't
Bucky, you know, there's no
real issues. I feel like
I was jaded again, this
comes from my unlearning, but
in my early dotnet days,
I was doing drag and
drop web forms, sort of
development. And I remember some
of the dragon drop stuff
where I would kind of
bring an Ajax toolkit down
and compile and then ship
it. And then the next
day, my coworker next to
me would say, Hey, you
know, I went to the
web page and it says,
I'm missing this DLL or
this component. And I'm like,
how's that possible? I just
drag that on there and
it should have just compiled
it, you know? So I
kind of was a distrusting
of drag and drop, but
I found the iPhone experience
was really nice because in
addition to just dragging stuff
on the form, it also
gave me a better idea
of what it looked like
in the previous setting. And
I never saw from my
limited experience, I never saw
a view look differently in
the simulator or on a
real phone compared to what
I thought it was gonna
look like. So it was
very accurate. I just never
had any issues. So, So,
so Microsoft's failure in the
past for some drag and
drop things ended up jading
you against dragon drop and
the iPhone layout dragging up
works very well. Yeah. It's
yeah, it's definitely very white.
I honestly don't understand the
deep underpinnings of it all,
but for, for a kind
of a, you know, someone
who wants to ship an
app was the view I
went in with. It was,
it was awesome. I really
didn't have any problems with
th the, the real issues
I had as far as
layouts on any of the
platforms was on the Android
side. And when I was
doing my Android development a
couple months ago, the only
product that even offered a
preview was some version of
eclipse at the time. And
of course I was using
Intelijay. So I didn't have
a single preview. So literally
when I was building my
app and intelligent, I'm just
writing XML. I have no
idea what this is going
to look like. And if
you remember the painful days
of early web development, pre
jQuery and all that good
stuff, you'd have, you know,
a ton of different browsers
open. And every time you
kind of push a new
CSS file or whatever, you
go refresh them all and
make sure it wasn't broken.
That's kind of how it
felt like doing Android view
development except much worse because
that preview, you had to
actually either a load, the
emulator to go see what
it looks like. And you
want to talk about slow
feedback. You know, the, the
older I get in the
software world, the more I'm
starting to value fast feedback,
you know, the, the projects
I've been on that have
either failed or not done
very well have been because
feedback got so expensive that
what a developers do, they
start taking shortcuts, right. I
can't change one variable and
check it because it's too
expensive. I'll change two or
three hope that I got
everything just right. Well, that
obviously eats up more time
because if you actually have
a bug, you don't know
which of those three changes
actually introduced it. So that's
kind of the experience. In
fact, when I did the
Iowa code camp apps recently,
I remember putting off the
Android app till very, very
last because of, I just
had this gut reaction. I
was like, Oh, I don't
want to do that view
development. It's so time consuming.
So, Okay. So last two
questions then publishing, was it
pretty straightforward to get these
three apps into the three
stores? Yeah. Publishing, I really
beat up on the, the
iPhone experience because as someone
new to iOS 10 and
obviously someone new to iPhone
development, it was the most
confusing process to after I
had the app built, get
it kind of DRM and
shipped up to Apple because
for one, I was not
in the last 10 years
or so, I didn't really
understand how certificates and all
that stuff worked, but I
honestly remember phoning a friend
of mine saying, Hey, I'm
at the point where I
think I'm just not going
to sell this iPhone app
right now, because it's so
hard. You know, he's like,
I thought learning objective, see
what's hard. And, you know,
really publishing the app was
very difficult from that whole
certificate standpoint thing. And again,
I did a screencast recently
to help other people who
are just like, what in
the world do I need
to do to get this
thing in the store? But
in addition to that, of
course, the rumors about very
tough certifications, you know, they
hold true Apple. I think
the first month I tried
to get my app in
the store, I got rejected
six or seven times. It
was just a beat down
For what kind of stuff.
What kind of, why would
you get rejected? You know,
it's probably mostly my Fault.
One of the very simple
ones, which, you know, if
I maybe had done my
research was that when you
launch an app and you're
in airplane mode, so to
speak where you don't have
any wifi, or you don't
have any network connectivity, you
can't just let the app
kind of sit there and
spin so to speak. So
I obviously didn't know that
because it was my, my
first app, my first rejection
actually. And so I was
like, okay, you know, and
I eventually worked through all
those issues. And one thing
I will give Apple credit
for is they're very consistent.
So if they go through
and find, you know, three
things this time, and I
fix those three things it's
done, as long as they
do it correctly, it's done.
And they ship it. One
of the pains I had
on the windows phone side
was that they weren't very
consistent. Like I would, I
would submit it and they'd
be like, great, good job,
mr. Developer, here you go.
And they'd be like, Oh,
cool. Well then the next
time I submit like the
smallest bug, they find like
six things that were wrong
with it the first time,
but I didn't find, so
it was very weird because
I sometimes, you know, there's
no more, you know, there's
no more heartbreak for a
developer then. No. Right. So
when you're working on this
app for X amount of
hours and you go to
ship it, all you want
to see is approved, good
job. You're going to start
making money. So when I,
you know, those two, both
the Apple side and the
Microsoft side, when you get
that first rejection, it was
just very heartbreaking for me
as, as you know, you
can revoke my man card,
but it was a sad
day. So, All right. So
in closing, let's talk about
money. How are we doing?
How are we selling these
things? Yeah. You know, the
sales side, I kind of
looked at it from two
angles. One, how much money
am I actually making? And
two what's the community or
the people, the consumers like
in those ecosystems. And as
far as Ross sales, I've
obviously made the most money
on the iPhone side. Not
necessarily to beat up on
Android or windows phone because
I did the iPhone first
way back in March. So
I've had a lot more
time to do sales, but
on a month to month
basis, I probably sell, I
don't know, maybe four or
five times the iPhone apps
that I do at windows
phone. And on the Android
side, I've been kind of
surprised. I haven't even made
my money back for, you
know, kind of the phones
I had to buy to
do some testing and to
actually pay the $25. Because
the, what I've found about
the Android market is unlike
iPhone and windows phone, where
it's like, Hey, the app's
not even five bucks, it's
cheap. Right. That's just how
the community feels. And I
talked to my wife and
her friends and other people
in the community. It's like,
Hey, you know, stop five
bucks. It can't be that
bad. But people on the
Android side who traditionally are,
you know, are known for
not paying for apps. I
found they will pay for
apps, but they've got to
find a lot of value.
So for instance, I have
a, usually a spike in
my sales when the Android
Redbox app is crashing or
broken, because people just want
to reserve a movie. At
that point, they have no
brand loyalty. They're like, forget
it. I just want, you
know, I just want to
go out and actually rent
this movie. I'll, I'll pick
this up on, you know,
on blockbuster tonight. So Interesting.
I heard this similar things
for the guy that made
angry birds that remember they
gave angry birds away on
Android because there's like no
Android developers, Android users rather
will never pay for anything.
So you're right. There is
a definite feel in the
different, the different on stores.
So people can check out
your application at a, at
blue flicks app.com and your
website is torn billups.com. I'll
put both of those in
the show, show notes, as
well as your complete mobile
development report card. Yeah. You
could probably also include my,
I actually have a red
box app for windows phone.
It's the only red box
out there today. Cause the,
the parent company has a
built an official red box
app yet. All right, cool.
We'll put all of that
in the, in the show
notes. And of course, people
can read about this on
your blog and, and pick
on you in the, in
the country. Nice. Sounds good.
Thanks a lot. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. We'll see you again
next week.